Chore: Proofread RIF Storage docs (#531)
rsksmart/devportal: rif/marketplace/services/storage/techspecs.md

tags: rif, marketplace, storage, IPFS, technical
---

**Storage Services** allows Providers of decentralized storage to register their offers, defining a capacity, a storage system (**IPFS** only), and a set of subscription/pricing plans. Consumers can browse the available offers and rent the desired space to store the required content, having the option to upload it directly or simply replicate it among different Providers, if required.

The service is implemented through a **Smart Contract** that handles all Storage Offers and Agreements in a transparent and decentralized way. The **RIF Storage Pinning** service is permanently connected to the Blockchain listening to any activity on the Marketplace so it can proceed and persist the required content in an automated manner, providing simplicity and security to all parties.

> See [Glossary](#glossary) for explanation of terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [glossary](#glossary) for explanations of various terms.
```

### [Provider] Offer termination

The Provider can decide to terminate an Offer. The active Agreements will continue to run until they run out of funds, but Consumers can not deposit new funds to the Agreements. Provider needs to be aware that the termination process can take quite a while.

1. Provider goes to Marketplace and sees own Offers.
2. The Provider chooses which Offer to terminate.
3. Reviews the estimate until when the Agreements will be active.
4. Submit and creates termination transaction.

### Creating new Agreement [Consumer]

1. Finds an Offer (e.g., through filtering) on RIF Marketplace that suits his requirements.
2. Configures the new Agreement.
    - Defines the capacity to be requested for the data.
    - Chooses price, token, and frequency of payments.
    - Chooses amount of funds to deposit.
    - Pins an existing hash or uploads a set of files.
3. Create transaction for the newAgreement call.

### Depositing Funds [Consumer]

1. Goes to RIF Marketplace UI.
2. Selects which of his Agreements he wants to top-up.

> 3. Chooses amount and create the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Chooses the amounts, and creates the transaction.
```

The main **high-level components** are:

 - **RIF Marketplace UI** - the main web UI where all transactions originate.
 - **Cache** - a cache that stores the state of the Smart Contract in a readable format and does some basic preprocessing on it.
 - **Pinning Service** - a service running on Provider's machine connected to IPFS node which orchestrates the pinning mechanism.
 - **Smart Contract** - a place where the state is stored and managed. This is the "origin of truth".

>  - **RIF Storage.js** - a library that can abstract away lot of technicalities happening in order for the file to be pinned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **RIF Storage.js** - a library that abstracts away a lot of technicalities required for the file to be pinned.
```

## Implementation notes

### Freeing up Offers capacity

Offer's capacity is tracked as part of the Smart Contract in order not to exceed the Provider's capacity. Hence, when a new Agreement is being created, it is checked whether there is enough capacity remaining and if so the requested capacity is allocated. The capacity of the expired Agreement is returned to Offer during Payout Funds call of the Smart Contract.

### Pinning Service Listening Strategies

Pinning Service listens on events that defines the service's actions like when new agreement is created (and hence something should be pinned) etc. The main source of this events is the blockchain.

Unfortunately, public RSKj nodes do not currently support listening on events or the `eth_getLogs` call to poll for events. This requires the Provider to run own RSKj node, which can be a daunting task, causing an adoption barrier.

> Since the Marketplace's Cache service supports WebSockets connections, and it's already used in the Marketplace UI for listening on events and updates from Cache, we decided to add support for listening on events from Cache. This has become the new default option. For those with minimal trust for the Cache, they can still run their own RSKj node and use that as source of the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Marketplace's Cache service supports WebSockets connections, and it's already used in the Marketplace UI for listening on events and updates from Cache, we decided to add support for listening on events from Cache. This has become the new default option. For those with minimal trust in the Cache, they can still run their own RSKj node and use that as source of the events.
```
